You might want to have the examples out while reading this description. 

Imagine a 3D box composed of cubes. The key (a number less than or equal to the length of the plaintext) is the number of rows and columns in each level of the box.
Thus, there are key^2 number of cubes in each level. A plaintext of length L is given. The number of levels in the box is the ceiling of L\(key^2). Starting on the
bottom level at the top left cube, the characters of the plaintext fill the level by clockwise spiraling inward. Once the level is filled, the next character is placed
in the cube directly above the previous final cube filled. Then, this second level is filled by counter-clockwise spiraling outward. Once this second level is filled,
the next character is placed in the cube above the previous final cube and a clockwise spiral fill inward commences... This cycle of inward and outward spiral filling
continues until the characters of the plaintext run out. If there are not enough characters to fill a level, then the characters fill as much of the level as they can.
Take a moment to view the Spirals key 5 example. Each level is displayed individually with the first level displayed on top and the final level displayed last. The
dashes represent empty cubes. The plaintext is given in the other key 5 file along with the encrypted text (method to obtain this is described shortly). Now view this
box from the top. Start on the bottom left corner on the top level, take the character in this cube and concatenate it with all the characters in the cubes below it 
(if there are empty cubes on the top most cube, then the character of the cube below it will serve as the first character in the string). This concatenation is the
first part of our encryptedtext. Now from the top view again, repeat this process for every cube in the order of every diagonal (pointed in south east direction) going
towards the top right corner. The strings generated by the concatenation of the characters in the cubes below each selected cube are added together in the order in
which the top most cubes are selected. Look at the diagram of the order of selection starting from the bottom left to top right (selection.png). With all this in mind,
see if you get the same encrypted text of key 5 and key 6 of the examples.

You are given an encrypted plaintext containing the flag. The plaintext has been encrypted 3 times over with different keys.
